(ETHEREAL MUSIC)
PRIYA: Whoa. Um...
What?
This.
Oh, my God.
Do you guys believe in omens?
Omens for what?
I think I might be pregnant.
Huh? To who?
-Are you sure?
-Didn't you use a condom?
I wanna say yes,
but we were just...
We were so messy and I can't
remember a thousand per cent
what was going on down there
and everything was just
really patchy and...
Have you taken a test?
But I was really tired
the other day, remember?
And I really needed
to vom yesterday
and right now,
I am bloated as fuck.
We just had Betty's Burgers.
And I just started using
this period tracker...
Your cycle is super flaky.
Yeah, but if it's right,
then...I'm late.
We should get you a test.
Wait, what? You actually
think I'm pregnant?
I say no,
but I have zero context.
-OK.
-KATE: Let's go.
I can't tell if you're,
like, messing with me or not...
We're being serious.
I'm not convinced.
I don't know.
It's, like...
This is serious business.
PRIYA: "Do not allow urine
"to go past the plastic housing
of the test stick."
Think you've read it
enough times, Pri.
-(WHISPERS) Are you OK?
-(WHISPERS) Yeah.
I can't wee if you're talking.
(TOILET FLUSHES)
PRIYA: Don't you think
it's weird
that, like,
the weather or whatever
can just change everything?
Everything's gonna be OK,
Priya.
Like, if it wasn't windy
on our first day of Year 7,
I would have never
gotten pollen in my eyes,
Maya would have never been upset
that her hat blew off in front
of everybody
and we would've never met in the
bathroom before the bell went.
We would have met literally
10 minutes later in math.
Um, we might not have
sat next to each other.
Pri, whatever happens,
we've got your back.
I know! I know.
I'm...I'm just saying.
A gust of wind
basically changed our lives.
(TIMER BEEPS)
Time's up.
MAYA: One line.
PRIYA: Are you sure?
Maybe it's wrong.
I mean, my sister
had two negatives
and she still had to
have an abortion, right?
I mean,
we both keep so hydrated,
maybe our pee is just
too diluted to show up.
Or maybe...maybe these tests
aren't made for brown women.
So I should get a blood test
to be sure, right?
If you think so.
Cool, 'cause imagine if I told
Tully's mum the wrong thing.
-Why would you...
-Tell her anything?
She'd be the grandma.
She'd want to know either way.
OK, you don't need to
look at me like that.
It's not like I've actually
bought a Kia Carnival
and a car seat or a bassinet
and a change table and a crib
or started thinking about
what needs baby-proofing.
-Oh, my God, you need to...
-Oh, my God. Oh, my God!
-It doesn't hurt.
-It doesn't hurt, trust me.
You've got this.
I can go in by myself.
-Are you sure?
-Yeah.
-It'll be fine.
-OK.
You're gonna need these.
Thank you.
You got this, babe.
I know. I got it. It's fine.
I hope I never have to worry
about getting pregnant.
(LAUGHS) Same.
We should only have sex
with vaginas, then.
I don't know
if that's in my future.
It's OK not to know.
I kinda wanna know.
(BOTH CHUCKLE)
Um, are you nervous
about seeing your dad?
I don't know.
Are you?
Can't be nervous about something
that probably won't happen.
-Oh, big bad Maya!
-(CHUCKLES)
What would you say to him?
What would you want
to say to him?
I just think
all these flop dads
should leave
the rest of us in peace.
Yeah, right? I wish.
(CHUCKLES)
OPHELIA: So,
what does your agent say?
TRISTAN: That I'll be getting
the money next year.
(TRISTAN AND OPHELIA LAUGH)
OPHELIA: Fuck him!
Oh, there she is!
Where are you staying?
It's...it's just for
a couple of days
and I've ordered Afghan.
You can't even eat solids.
Well, it can still be our thing.
What are you wearing
for the opening?
Oh, I was thinking for me,
I've got this new set
that's so sculptural
and it's got this kind of...
Why don't you wear the white one
that I bought you in Malta?
-It'll match the work.
-I love that dress.
-Right?
-Mm-hm.
Hope you've invited
heaps of your friends.
Why?
Sorry, are you embarrassed
by success?
No.
Would you rather we be poor?
OPHELIA: OK. (LAUGHS)
What is going on with you two?
Nothing.
Well, when you give everything
over to your art,
you can't keep everyone happy.
Whatever.
-More Afghan for me.
-(LAUGHS)
TRISTAN: I love Afghan so much.
(CONVERSATION
CONTINUES INDISTINCTLY)
(CHIRPING AND SQUEAKING)
It's like bugs and shit.
(DOG GROWLS)
(SPEAKER BLEEPS)
-(RAIN PATTERS)
-Oh! That's nice.
-Where did it come from?
-JED: It's a present.
Zippy got one for his mum
and she loved it.
(BELCHES)
GUS: What happened at
the panel beaters?
Oh, I...I think they wanted
to give me the job, but nah.
Couldn't see it working out.
It's all good.
Zip has a couple of contacts
in Bathurst,
so we're gonna
check that out tomorrow,
see what's around out there,
you know?
Good on you, lovey.
Don't you give up.
Bathurst? When are you going?
Tomorrow.
Come with me
to this thing instead.
What thing?
It's my mate's dad
art opening thing.
It's gonna be free food,
drinks, shit like that.
The fuck are you
talking about, Gussy?
Come on, man,
there'll be some bankers there.
Oh, you don't say.
I don't like wankers.
Nah, but, for real,
they like handmade furniture
and shit like that.
EMME: Well, so, you're
really good with your hands.
Mm. Yeah, yeah, Gussy.
Do you want this
on your bedside table?
-Yes, please, love. Thank you.
-OK.
You are such a good boy,
darling.
(LAUGHS) How dumb
do you think I am?
"My mate's dad
has an art thing."
Is your mate a girl?
Yeah, I have mates
who are girls.
You should try it, bro.
You wanna know what I learnt
my first night inside?
Nope.
Uncle Mal, he's like
the leader of the wing,
he says to me,
"See that guy over there?
"If he asks you to take his tray
and chuck his scraps out,
"would you do it?"
And I was, like,
"I don't know. Probably."
"No, you wouldn't," he said.
"Only do something for someone
if they do it for you."
That's
the number-one rule in jail.
Actually, it's
the number-one rule in life.
You don't live by that.
You'd suck anyone off, man.
Shut up, ya derro!
And turn the light off.
TRISTAN: Tell me
how you really feel!
OPHELIA: I don't think
you can handle knowing the truth
about how I and every
fucking one feels about you.
-TRISTAN: Go on.
-OPHELIA: Oh.
-TRISTAN: Go on!
-OPHELIA: Really?
TRISTAN: Yes,
tell me everything!
OPHELIA: OK. Your head is so far
up your own arse right now.
TRISTAN: You're not sitting on
some perch above me!
You're just like your mum.
You remind me of
a little...little retriever
trying to get another pat
at every skate park in Sydney.
-You're begging for it.
-Get the fuck out of my house!
You're disgusting.
Get out! Get out!
-What, because I won't pat you?
-No, because you're fucking...
(SNIFFLES) I hate him so much.
-KATE: No, you don't.
-I do!
He's just a fucking lizard.
He's a lizard and...
(SLURPS)
Licking his lizard-y lips.
He's disgusting.
He's eww. He's eww.
He can fuckin' eww his stupid
artwork up his dick hole.
I'm not a bowerbird,
bowing all the time.
(GULPS, SIGHS)
Do you think
this is still my colour?
(GIGGLES SOFTLY)
(BELLS TINKLE)
(SERENE MUSIC)
Tully?
Tully, wait.
(TRAIN RATTLES)
KATE: Hey.
(SIGHS)
-I'm not pregnant.
-Oh.
Then what?
I have chlamydia.
What?
Half of the world
is walking around
with chlamydia right now.
Not Tully's chlamydia.
There must be another girl.
Sorry, Pri. What a weird thing.
I know that
having a baby is mental
and, like, your abs can fully
split open when you're pregnant.
Did you know that?
Anyway...
But...
..it was kinda nice knowing
that he'd live on, you know?
And not in a chlamydia way.
Shut up!
It was also kinda nice knowing
where I'd be in a year's time.
You'll still be here.
No, like, what I'd be doing.
Like a purpose or whatever.
KATE: Aww, Pri.
I don't know that either.
MAYA: Me neither. I wish!
PRIYA:
What are you talking about?
Maya, you'll have quit the IGA
because you're sick
of watching people
buy their dumb stuff every day
and you'll be worrying about
whether your mum's
gonna find out
you put Melbourne Uni down
on your preferences.
And, Kate,
you'll be telling us all
that you're boycotting
ARTEXPRESS
and hanging out with
some cool new poet
who does tantra.
(MAYA CHUCKLES)
Oh, my God, Priya.
KATE: I mean, I'm not upset
if that turns out to be true.
PRIYA: I mean, but what
do I have that's special?
KATE: Oh, Pri, don't be
so mean to yourself.
You have you, you have us,
and soon you'll have
some antibiotics
and a solemn duty to get
dressed up and come with me
to this dumb-arse
fucking launch.
PRIYA: What the fuck is that?
-Isn't that your idea?
-No offence.
Wow!
Sorry, but it speaks to me.
Mm, yes, please!
-Oh, thank you.
-Oh, no.
Mm, antibiotics.
I really shouldn't have broken
up with Brendan, should I?
I didn't even know that he did.
JED: If you're in the zone,
it's hectic. Flow state.
I mean, it's no monster candle,
but there's nothing better
than making something
with your hands.
I can think of something.
I mean, maybe you boys
get in the flow some days too,
like you're at one
with the market or whatever.
-And you sell these?
-He does custom.
You like pottery?
Talk about flow.
What did I walk in on?
Jed, Gus, Ricko.
This guy's tapped into
all this shit.
Hey, cool, man.
You should join us after.
We'll go party.
(SNIFFS) Sorted?
Uh, I think
we'll be heading off.
But chill, Gussy, chill.
Here, check this out.
-And go hang with your friends.
-Mm.
It's all good.
I think I've made
a terrible mistake.
-Do you need water, G?
-Mm-hm.
OK, this way.
I don't like these things.
Too much desperation.
I love to get around
as much as possible.
-(SNORTS AND SNIGGERS)
-Oh, my God.
That's...that's not
what I meant.
I meant like I like to get
a wide range of inspiration
for my own art practice.
I'm sorry, but what
a fame whore is she.
She was nice in
my wellbeing session.
Um, why are you here?
Same reason as you, darling.
-Hi!
(LAUGHS) Oh, sorry!
Thank you.
(WHISPERS)
What the fuck was that?!
I try to do small works
in between teaching,
but lately I haven't been able
to find the time because I...
Oh, I'm surprised
to see you here.
Are you?
Well, I best do my speech.
You'd think that doing the thing
would be enough, but...
Don't worry.
If you're not a threat to
his talent, he'll be back.
MAE: Uh...
No, um, I'm not...
(LAUGHS) We're...
-I'm Kate's art teacher.
-Oh!
-TRISTAN: Ting-ting!
-Oh, how lovely.
-TRISTAN: Ting-ting.
-How lovely for you to be here.
Grazie. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you for coming to
the official opening
of my latest
and most personal offering.
-'504 Faces of Melancholy'.
-(CHEERING)
It may not have been
what Allenby Wolfe & Trust
were imagining
when they commissioned me
to be a part of their
terrific philanthropic work,
but I am a man of the streets.
I come from street art.
-Do you remember that?
-What?
When art was free,
when governments would...
..would spend money
trying to silence us.
-AUDIENCE MEMBERS: Yeah.
-WOMAN: Preach!
My point is that
sometimes we need to be taken
on a journey to get there,
and now I'm here.
Here I am.
The first idea for this piece
started off as a manifestation,
if you like,
of the many sorrows
of the world,
and how we can, uh...
No. (LAUGHS)
No, no, no,
it's time to be honest.
(WHISPERS) OK, do we hate him?
(WHISPERS) Yeah.
(WHISPERS) Cool.
I was bunkered down
in my Blue Mountains hovel
and every morning,
I would wake up
and there would be
a slew of empty wine bottles,
but, worst of all,
I was waking up to
an empty, shallow
ghoul of a man
staring back at me
in the mirror.
I couldn't see
my own brilliance.
I couldn't see Ophelia,
the love of my life,
the inspiration behind
so much of my early work.
Every street,
I searched for joy
and joy eluded me...
(CRUNCHES ICE)
..until I realised what
a massive prick I was being
and I set about creating this,
this most tremendous
and expensive puddle of wax.
-(TRISTAN LAUGHS)
-(AUDIENCE MEMBERS LAUGH)
TRISTAN: Oh!
But...but our melancholy,
our whole existence,
is as fleeting as this work.
Who knows?
One day they might commission me
to replace it with a hologram of
itself in a generation's time.
-(LAUGHS)
-(SCOFFS)
But, seriously, I want you
to marvel at this work
because it doesn't just
disappear on us
and leave us with nothing.
It leaves us with clarity.
(AUDIENCE MURMURS APPROVINGLY
AND APPLAUDS)
(SPEAKS INDISTINCTLY)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
You know, it's alright
if you don't get it.
I kinda do, but kinda don't.
(CHUCKLES)
I feel like that half the time.
And I know it's his work,
but there's a part of me
in it always.
And there's a part of him in me,
just stuck there.
Part of Tully is in me.
Aww, sweetheart.
No, for real.
I have Tully's chlamydia.
-What?
-In me.
Oh, darling,
you should get that looked at.
Oh, I have antibiotics. I just
haven't been able to take them.
(SIGHS)
It might be the last part
of him on Earth.
It's alright to let him go.
PRIYA: Do you think
his soul's in purgatory?
OPHELIA: Oh, I hope not.
But I tell you what,
if there is a pill to fix
what a man has left you with,
then take it.
It won't always be that simple.
If you wanna go ape-shit
on your dad, you totally should.
That speech was cooked.
You wouldn't get it.
Because my parents are nobodies?
No!
You can be someone without him.
You really wouldn't get it.
You can be someone
without being someone.
(PLAYS FLOWING, ABSTRACT MUSIC)
Kate, you OK?
-I'm going home.
-Oh, no, stay.
There's people that
you still haven't met yet.
Well, what would I say to them?
That between all the wine,
you couldn't think of an idea,
so you stole mine?
-Oh, Katie-Cakes...
-Don't call me that.
Every artist lends
from other artists.
Every artist worth their loafers
knows that.
Adding self-pity to an idea
isn't art.
Don't upset your mum.
OPHELIA: Darling, everyone
thinks it's really good.
You should be happy.
(TRISTAN'S VOICE ECHOES)
..skate parks in Sydney
just...just...just
keen for a pat!
Hey, come with me.
Why aren't you working
with us, dude?
Oh, you know,
I wasn't much in school,
but I did really good
at economics in jail.
I knew there was
something up with you!
(MEN LAUGH)
-Come on.
-I'm coming.
Aww, you're playing again.
I really shouldn't have
broken up with Brendan.
I think I can feel Tully
leaving my body.
Maybe his soul
is finally at rest.
GUS: You can breathe now.
-How could you tell?
-Just could.
You can see way more than
last time I was up here.
There was heaps of scaffolding.
Pretty sick, eh.
You came here with Tully, yeah?
Me and him used to always talk
through, like, our parents.
He made me shoot a horse.
My dad, in the Blue Mountains.
She was stuck in the mud
and her leg was broken.
So, he handed me a rifle
and told me I had to do it
to know, like,
the limits of humanity
or some shit like that.
He kept staring at me
until I pulled the trigger
and it fucked my shoulder
so bad.
And I think he was
waiting for me to cry,
but I didn't want to, you know?
And then he painted
a portrait of my face
from that moment and sold it.
You rich cunts are another
kind of fucked up, eh?
I mean, at least you done
the humane thing.
Thanks.
I did not know
your dad was MopsOne
and I did not know
MopsOne was a dark, dark dude.
He's legendary.
But you know he's still got
a piece out there
that no-one's touched,
which is absolutely bullshit.
But I could fuck it up.
(IMITATES EXPLOSION)
-You know what I mean?
-Really?
Yes, really. Definitely.
(MOODY ELECTRONIC MUSIC)
SONG: ♪ Salt coast
♪ Foul wind
♪ Old ghosts
♪ Scrap tin
♪ Leaves
♪ Rain
♪ Salt coast
♪ Foul wind
♪ Old ghosts
♪ Scrap tin
♪ Leaves
♪ Rain
♪ All dressed up
♪ With nowhere to go
♪ I love your
♪ Sleeve-pulling nervousness
♪ I love the way you crumble
♪ Into chalk at your edges
♪ I love the way
you fade into a sky
♪ That is as endless
as your willingness to try
♪ Keep going
and it will get better
♪ I love the way
you push to get clear
♪ I love the way you dance
to get strong
♪ Ancient... ♪